EMOTIONAL
I find healthy ways to cope with stress (e.g. exercise, meditation, social
support, self-care activities, etc.) 
I am able to ask for assistance when I need it, either from friends and
family, or professionals. 
I accept responsibility for my own actions. 
I am able to set priorities. 
I feel good about myself and believe others like me for who I am. 
I am flexible and able to adapt/adjust to life’s changes in a positive way. 
I can express all ranges of feelings (i.e. hurt, sadness, fear, anger, joy,
etc.) and manage emotion-related behaviors in a healthy way. 
I maintain a balance of work, friends, family, school and other obligations. 
I do not let my emotions get the better of me. I think before I act. 
I have a healthy relationship with social media. 

SPIRITUAL
I take time to think about what is important in life – who I am, what I
value, where I fit in, where I’m going. 
I make time for relaxation during the day. 
I have a belief system in place (religious, agnostic, atheist, spiritual, etc.). 
My values guide my decisions and actions. 
I have a sense of purpose in my life. 
I am tolerant and accepting of the view of others. 
I utilize resources to improve my well-being. 
I am active in communities or causes I care about. 
I am able to set, communicate and enforce boundaries. 
I work to create balance and peace within my interpersonal relationships,
community and the world. 

PHYSICAL
I manage my weight in healthy ways. 
I exercise regularly. 
I get 7-9 hours of sleep each night and feel rested in the morning. 
I seek advice from health care professionals if I have a health concern I
cannot solve on my own. 
I do not use or avoid harmful use of drugs (over-the-counter, prescription
and illicit). 
I drink alcohol responsibly (i.e. designated sober driver, avoid binge
drinking, etc.) 
I protect my skin from sun damage by using sunscreen with SPF 30+,
wearing hats and/or avoiding tanning booths and sun lamps. 
I maintain healthy eating patterns that include fruits and vegetables. 
I stay hydrated and drink water throughout the day. 
I protect myself from STIs and unwanted pregnancy by either abstaining
from sexual behaviors or using proper protection, such as condoms. 

SOCIAL 
I am satisfied with my social life. 
I am involved in at least one university community or group. 
I maintain a network of supportive friends, family and social contacts. 
I have at least one meaningful relationship in my life. 
I am accepting of the diversity of others (race, ethnicity, religion, gender,
ability, sexual orientation, etc.) 
I am able to prioritize my own needs by saying “no” to others’ requests
for my time. 
I have someone I can talk to about my feelings and struggles. 
I participate in social activities and enjoy being with people who are
different from me. 
I give and take equally in my relationships. 
I plan time with my family and friends. 

FINANCIAL 
I know my total amount of debt and interest rates. 
I pay my credit cards, tuition/fees and other bills on time. 
I know about the different sources of financial aid that I am eligible for
and apply when I am able. 
I have a savings account and save money regularly. 
I know my credit score. 
I keep my financial information safe by using secure passwords, PINs and
dual authentication. 
I feel good about my current and future financial situation. 
I check my bank statements/accounts each month. 
I understand how to build credit and use credit cards wisely. 

OCCUPATIONAL
I am able to balance work, play, school and other aspects of my life. 
I take advantage of opportunities to learn new skills that can enhance my
future employment opportunities. 
I know what skills are necessary for the occupations I am interested in. 
I strive to develop good work habits (dependability, initiative, etc.). 
I work effectively with others. 
I have confidence in my job search skill (resume writing, interviewing,
cover letters, networking, etc.). 
I have explored different career options. 
I know where to find employment opportunities (job service, online, etc.) 
I manage my time effectively. 
I have participated in internships or volunteer work. 

INTELLECTUAL
I know about available campus resources to help me study. 
I feel fulfilled in my academic program. 
I seek personal growth by learning new skills. 
I look for ways to use my creative and critical thinking skills. 
I am open to new ideas. 
I learn about different topics that interest me from books, magazines,
newspapers and the internet. 
I know how to access academic resources when necessary. 
I am comfortable reaching out to my professor/TA for help or attending
office hours. 
I am eager to learn. 
I stay informed about social, political and other current issues. 

ENVIRONMENTAL 
I spend time outdoors enjoying nature. 
I reduce, reuse and recycle products. 
I try to lessen my environmental impact. 
I walk, bike, use public transportation or carpool when possible. 
I am concerned about impacts on my local, national and world climate. 
I have a space to call my own. 
I feel comfortable in the space I occupy. 
I feel content in my environments (class, home, work, etc.). 
I shop locally. 
I participate in campus events that help my community (food drives,
fundraisers, etc.). 